include({{{{../cv/managerial_experience_introduction.md}}}})

## Assignments: Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory - Computational Science and AI Directorate (CSAID)

include({{{{../cv/assignments_scd.md}}}})

## Assignments: U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program

include({{{{../cv/assignments_ops.md}}}})

## Assignments: CMS Collaboration - Offline & Computing Coordination Area

include({{{{../cv/assignments_cms_offcomp.md}}}})

## Computational, Science and Artificial Intelligence Directorate (CSAID)

Since August 2024, I am the Deputy Associate Lab Director (interim) for the Computational Science and AI Directorate (CSAID). I oversee strategic and tactical initiatives to support the scientific program at Fermilab with software and computing solutions. Since November 2024, I am also the Acting Deputy Division Director for the Scientific Computing Systems and Services Division and the Department Head for the Facility Evolution Department. The department maintains and evolves the Computing Resources Evolution STrategy (CREST) process, which documents a strategy for the evolution of Fermilab's computing resources with a planning horizon of 10 years.

From September 2022 to July 2024, during which the [Computational Science and AI Directorate (CSAID)](https://computing.fnal.gov/organization/) was formed from the Scientific Computing Division, I was the CMS Software & Computing Coordinator for the Directorate, because of my role as the U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program manager. I was the general contact for all aspects of CMS software and computing in the Division and involved in budgetary and personnel planning and major strategy decisions. During the same time, I was also the Department Head for the Computing Resource Evolution Strategy Department, developing a strategy for the evolution of Fermilab's computing resources in the light of current experiment needs and future anticipated needs of DUNE and HL-LHC.

From October 2019 to August 2022, I was in a similar role as the CMS Software & Computing Coordinator, called Associate Head of the Scientific Computing Division of Fermilab for CMS.

From October 2016 to September 2019, I was appointed Deputy Head of the Scientific Services Quadrant. This quadrant was the user facing arm of the Scientific Computing Division, and developed computing infrastructure software components for data and workload management for the whole scientific program of Fermilab, supporting neutrino, muon, and astro-particle experiments as well as CMS.

From September 2014 to September 2016, I was appointed Assistant Scientific Computing Division Head for Science Operations and Workflows in the Scientific Computing Division of Fermilab. I was responsible for the delivery of scientific computing services to all Fermilab experiments, including High Energy Physics experiments (e.g. CMS), Neutrino Physics experiments (e.g. NOvA, Minerva), Intensity Frontier experiments (e.g. mu2e, Muon g-2) and Astro Particle Physics experiments (e.g. DES). As a member of the senior management team, I developed strategic plans to evolve the infrastructure and operational procedures. For example, I developed a new storage strategy that simplifies the operation and usage of the more than 30 PB of disk space at Fermilab dedicated to all experiments except CMS. I was also responsible for maintaining the computing strategy as part of the Laboratory Strategy Effort and reported to the laboratory directorate.

## U.S. CMS Software & Computing Operations Program Manager

From March 2019 to December 2024, I was appointed the U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program manager. The mission of the operations program is to provide the software and computing infrastructure for U.S. CMS researchers to maintain physics leadership in CMS, as well as to provide computing resources to the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid ([WLCG](https://wlcg.web.cern.ch)) as the U.S. contribution to the computing resource needs of the CMS collaboration. The operations program is funded by both the U.S. Department of Energy ([DOE](https://www.energy.gov/science/hep/high-energy-physics)) and the U.S. National Science Foundation ([NSF](https://www.nsf.gov)). Under my leadership, the program's annual budget increased from 15M U.S. Dollars in 2019 to almost 20M U.S. Dollars in 2024. I lead a team of more than 60 FTE of scientists and technical staff from 20 U.S. institutes and national laboratories. For staffing of new initiatives and succession planning purposes, I was involved directly in hiring at Fermilab and indirectly through hiring by university PIs. I provided technical guidance and oversaw the funding and operation of computing hardware of the U.S. CMS regional facility at Fermilab and 7 U.S. university facilities at Caltech, Florida University, MIT, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Purdue University, UC San Diego, and University of Wisconsin-Madison. The program funds effort to administer the sites, maintain the software and computing infrastructure and conduct strategic R&D projects. Amongst these projects are the CMS software framework CMSSW, the workflow software and distributed alignment and calibration access software, as well as contributions to community software projects like [ROOT](https://root.cern/) and [Rucio](https://rucio.cern.ch). In 2019, I started introducing aspects of formal project management into the operations program and modeled a regularly updated risk assessment approach on the operational risk registry of Fermilab. This allowed me to communicate timely and accurately with program management and funding agencies through regular reports and meeting calls as well as biannual in-person meetings and biennial external reviews.

## CMS Offline & Computing Coordination Area

The CMS collaboration appointed me Focus Area Lead for Services and Infrastructure in the CMS Software and Computing project from 2015 to 2019. I was coordinating the efforts of the worldwide submission infrastructure, innovative new ways of using resources at commercial clouds and supercomputing centers, and the development of computing infrastructure services like data management and workflow management systems.

The CMS collaboration appointed me lead of the Data Operations Project in 2009. Using my deep involvement in physics analysis and my expertise in computing, I was responsible for the timely delivery of all data and MC samples for analysis, a significant contribution to the overall success of the experiment. In 2012, CMS extended my responsibilities and appointed me to lead all of the CMS Computing Operations Project, adding the care of over 70 computing centers distributed all over the world and all central computing services of CMS. I was supervising the contributions of more than 60 scientists and engineers to the Computing Operations Project worldwide. The team was overseeing the readiness of all the computing facilities and monitoring both central workflows and analysis and the transfers of data and MC samples between the sites. After the Higgs discovery in 2012, the CMS collaboration awarded me the CMS Young Researcher Prize for enabling the Higgs Discovery with computing. This award is given to 10 collaboration members every year.

## Workplace Culture

My approach to building and maintaining highly motivated and efficient teams of professionals and scientists is based on creating a respectful and open workplace culture with clear guidance and expectation management. In large organizations, the goal setting and performance review process is instrumental in achieving this goal. In addition, I am very active in recruiting the next generation of professionals and scientists. The recruitment process starts a lot earlier than forming a candidate pool for a hire. In the early years of the LHC, I created the U.S. CMS Software & Computing Operations Program Internship Program. To contribute to the operations of the software and computing infrastructure of CMS on a daily basis, junior physicists and computing engineers were invited to Fermilab to spend 1-2 years working inside the international collaboration. Many of them continued their careers in academia and industry, and some were hired by me at Fermilab and other institutes to continue contributing to software and computing. Through my mentorship, members of the internship program started careers at the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center and Google, or moved on to study in graduate programs at Caltech, ETH Zurich or the University of Cambridge in the UK.

Recently, I am working with my teams to provide project and mentoring to students of the [U.S. CMS Summer Undergraduate Research Internship Program (PURSUE)](https://sites.google.com/upr.edu/uscms-pursue/home) to build the scientific software and computing workforce of the future.