I am a **leader in scientific computing** with over 15 years of experience and have acquired deep knowledge in scientific software and computing infrastructure. I am a particle physicist at heart and conducted and enabled breakthrough scientific discoveries in High Energy Physics (HEP). My goal is to continously expand my horizon and use my expertise to enable a growing set of science disciplines through software and computing.

High Energy Physics (HEP) requires very large amounts of computing resources to analyze simulations and data recorded by the detectors. I have extensive experience in planning, developing, and operating distributed computing infrastructures that provide access to several hundred-thousand computing cores and hundreds of petabytes of disk space and tape. I am intimately familiar with scientific grid sites, academic and commercial clouds and the largest U.S. supercomputers. I am also an expert in object-oriented software development, statistical data analysis methods and Monte Carlo simulation techniques as well as various optimization and machine learning techniques. I am member of the CMS collaboration operating one of the 4 detectors at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at [CERN](https://home.cern/) in Geneva, Switzerland.

Since August 2024, I am the Deputy Associate Lab Director (interim) for the Computational Science and AI Directorate (CSAID) at the Department of Energy (DOE) Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (FNAL). I oversee strategic and tactical initiatives to support the scientific program at Fermilab with software and computing solutions. Since November 2024, I am also the Acting Deputy Division Director for the Scientific Computing Systems and Services Division and the Department Head for the Facility Evolution Department. I created the Computing Resources Evolution STrategy (CREST) process, to document a strategy for the evolution of Fermilab's computing resources in the light of current experiment needs and future anticipated needs of DUNE and HL-LHC with a planning horizon of 10 years.

From March 2019 to December 2024, I was appointed U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program manager overseeing the U.S. CMS Tier-1 and Tier-2 facilities as well as software maintenance and development efforts for core software, computing infrastructure software and analysis systems. The operations program receives both funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Department of Energy (DOE). In this context, I was working together with DOE and NSF and partners at the universities and other labs to enable analysis of LHC particle collisions in the U.S. for the CMS collaboration, and prepare for the next phase of LHC data taking planned to start in 2030 called the High-Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC). To plan the R&D needed for HL-LHC, I co-authored a [strategic plan outlining four grand challenges](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00772). 

I am part of a worldwide community process to prepare the software and computing infrastructure for the HL-LHC, which will require many times the computing resources of today's LHC. I was co-author for the [overview white paper of the community](http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06982) and was co-editor of the topical white paper about the future of [data analysis in High Energy Physics](http://arxiv.org/abs/1804.03983). My expertise in the community was acknowledged in 2020 when I was asked to co-lead the [Computational Frontier](https://snowmass21.org/computational/start) of the [Particle Physics Snowmass 2021 process](https://snowmass21.org), the particle physics community planning exercise to document a scientific vision for the future of particle physics in the U.S. and its international partners.

I regularly speak at international conferences and workshops and am a member of the editorial board of the journal for [Computing and Software for Big Science](https://www.springer.com/physics/particle+and+nuclear+physics/journal/41781?countryChanged=true) and the [European Physical Journal (EPJ C)](https://epjc.epj.org/epjc-editorial-board).

My original motivation came from conducting **leading edge research** for New Physics Beyond the Standard Model of Particle Physics as well as precision Standard Model measurements. I have multiple years of experience in analyzing high-energy collisions at different particle colliders using a multitude of different techniques. I have [published many papers in leading journals](https://github.com/gutsche/ForThePublic/raw/master/publication_list/complete_publication_list.pdf). The CMS collaboration spans the whole globe and encompasses more than [3000 physicists from more than 50 countries out of which over 1000 are students](https://cms.cern/index.php/collaboration/people-statistics). In my studies at the LHC, I have led searches for evidence of physics beyond the Standard Model using top quarks, and contributed to searches for Supersymmetry and Dark Matter. One of my most noticeable publications is the [Observation of the Higgs Boson in 2012](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2012.08.021), where my work in scientific computing had a significant impact.