In March 2019, I was appointed the U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program manager enabling U.S. CMS collaborators to analyze the CMS experiment's data. From October 2016 to February 2019, I was the deputy manager for the same operations program. I am overseeing the operation of the U.S. CMS Tier-1 site at Fermilab and 7 U.S. Tier-2 sites at Caltech, Florida University, MIT, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Purdue University, UC San Diego, and Unversity of Wisconsin-Madison. The program funds over 60 FTE of effort to administer the sites, maintain the computing infrastructure and aid in strategic R&D projects. To plan the R&D needed for HL-LHC, I co-authored a strategic plan outlining four grand challenges: Modernizing Physics Software and Improving Algorithms; Building Infrastructure for Exabyte-Scale Datasets; Transforming the Scientific Data Analysis Process; and Transition from R\&D to Operations.

I am employing my extensive knowledge of scientific software and computing in contributing to the worldwide community efforts to plan for the software and computing infrastucture for the High Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC). Starting in 2029, the HL-LHC will produce many times the amount of data of the current LHC running periods. In addition, the collisions and the corresponding simulations will be many times as complex as today. I was an integral part of the community planning process and my input was documented in the [Roadmap for HEP Software and Computing R&D for the 2020s](http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06982). In addition, I was co-editor of the [HEP Software Foundation Community White Paper Working Group - Data Analysis and Interpretation](http://arxiv.org/abs/1804.03983). My expertise in the community was acknowledged in 2020 when I was called upon to co-lead the [Computational Frontier](https://snowmass21.org/computational/start) of the [Snowmass 2021 process](https://snowmass21.org). Because the Snowmass process was delayed by one year, I needed to resign in 2022 due to previous high priority committments. I oversaw the process till a successor was appointed.

My recent research interest in computing infrastructure is asking the question if analysis in HEP can be conducted more efficiently using tools developed and used by industry. Instead of employing the [ROOT](https://root.cern/) toolkit that was entirely developed by the HEP community, I am exploring using toolkits like [Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org/) or similar technologies. I created a research group spanning researchers from Fermilab, CERN and the Universities Princeton, Padova and Vanderbilt. The [CMS Big Data Project](https://cms-big-data.github.io/) is also very closely working together with industry, latest in a project with [Intel](https://www.intel.com/) concluded in January 2019 in the context of [CERN openlab](https://openlab.cern/). To realize this project, Fermilab joined CERN openlab and I organized the DOE approval process with the help of the Fermilab Office of Partership and Technology Transfer and the Fermilab Legal Office. I also managed a Laboratory Directed Research and Development project (LDRD) to develop innovative technology for Big Data delivery to array-based analysis code, the [Striped Data Server for Scalable Parallel Data Analysis](https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/1085/4/042035). The project concluded successfully in January 2019 and produced a prototype that is currently being used by a diverse set of experiments from collider physics to astro-particle physics. These projects lead to various projects like a user front-end to columnar data tools [COFFEA](https://github.com/CoffeaTeam) and supporting analysis activities funded through [IRIS-HEP](https://iris-hep.org/as.html).

The CMS collaboration appointed me Focus Area Lead for Services and Infrastructure in the CMS Software and Computing project from 2015 to 2019. I was coordinating the efforts of the worldwide submission infrastructure, innovative new ways of using resources at commercial clouds and supercomputing centers, and the development of computing infrastructure services like data management and workflow management systems.

In September 2019, I was appointed [Associate Head of the Scientific Computing Division of Fermilab for CMS](https://computing.fnal.gov/organization/). In my role as U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program manager, I am the general contact person for all aspects of CMS software and computing in the Scientific Computing Division and involved in budgetary and personnel planning and major strategy decisions of the division.

From October 2016 to September 2019, I was appointed Deputy Head of the Scientific Services Quadrant. This quadrant is the user facing arm of the Scientific Computing Division, and develops computing infrastructure software components for data and workload management for the whole scientific program of Fermilab, supporting neutrino, muon, and astro-particle experiments as well as CMS.

From September 2014 to September 2016, I was appointed Assistant Scientific Computing Division Head for Science Operations and Workflows in the Scientific Computing Division of Fermilab. I was responsible for the delivery of scientific computing services to all Fermilab experiments, including High Energy Physics experiments (e.g. CMS), Neutrino Physics experiments (e.g. NOvA, Minerva), Intensity Frontier experiments (e.g. mu2e, Muon g-2) and Astroparticle Physics experiments (e.g. DES). As member of the senior management team, I developed strategic plans to evolve the infrastructure and operational procedures. For example, I developed a new storage strategy that simplifies the operation and usage of the more than 30 PB of disk space at Fermilab. I was also responsible for maintaining the computing strategy as part of the Laboratory Strategy Effort and reported to the laboratory directorate.

The CMS collaboration appointed me lead of the Data Operations Project in 2009. Using my deep involvement in analysis and my expertise in computing, I was responsible for the timely delivery of all data and MC samples for analysis, a significant contribution to the overall success of the experiment. In 2012, CMS extended my responsibilities and appointed me to lead all of the CMS Computing Operations Project, adding the care of over 70 computing centers distributed all over the world and all central computing services of CMS. I was supervising the contributions of more than 60 scientists and engineers to the Computing Operations Project worldwide. The team was overseeing the readiness of all the computing facilities and monitor both central workflows and analysis and the transfers of data and MC samples between the sites. Due to my leadership, the CMS collaboration awarded me 2013 the CMS Young Researcher Prize for enabling the Higgs Discovery with computing. This award is given to 10 collaboration members every year. At the same time, I was a L2 manager in the U.S. CMS Software & Computing Operations Program responsible for Computing Operations. In this capacity and also before, I reported regularly to funding agencies and took part in reviews of DOE and NSF.
