# Technical Experience

I have deep knowledge of planning, developing, maintaining and operating distributed computing infrastructures that provide access to several hundred-thousand computing cores and many hundred of petabytes of disk space. I am versed in efficiently storing and retrieving data from permanent storage on tape. I am intimately familiar with both HTC and HPC, with scientific grid sites, academic and commercial clouds and the largest supercomputers at High Performance Computing centers in the U.S. and across the world. This infrastructure executes scientific software consisting of millions of lines of C++ and python code that is needed to extract physics results. I am an expert in object oriented software development, statistical data analysis methods and Monte Carlo simulation techniques as well as various optimization and machine learning techniques.

The technical aspects of my work are closely connected to scientific research, as they enable the analysis of particle physics detector data and simulations as a basis to extract physics results. My active involvement in HEP science allows me to guide the science community to benefit from the latest computing developments, bridging the worlds of science and scientific computing.

My current R&D projects revolutionize the utilization of wide area network connections by managing data movements through dynamic SDN channels within the DOE ASCR's ([ESnet SENSE/Rucio](https://indico.jlab.org/event/459/contributions/11306/) project), distinguish types of traffic flows at the site border through AI characterization of packet headers together with ESnet AI researchers, enabling CMS to utilize the latest supercomputers with emphasis on the DOE leadership class facilities based on GPUs, and changing the end-user analysis paradigm to adapt the usage of the industry based pythonic analysis ecosystem and employ columnar analysis techniques.