In January 2020, the DOE [Center for Computational Excellence](https://www.anl.gov/hep-cce/activities) was funded for a 3-year project to enable HEP experiments like ATLAS, CMS, DUNE, LSST, DESI and others to efficiently use HPC installations in the U.S. at the leadership class facilities at Argonne and Oakridge National Laboratories and NERSC at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. I co-wrote the proposal to execute 4 sub-projects to (1) investigate parallel portability solutions (PPS) to develop algorithmic code once and compile it transparently for the various CPU and accelerator-based architectures; (2) Fine-Grained I/O and Storage (IOS) to optimize data structures on disk and in memory and optimize data access on large shared storage systems at HPC systems; (3) Event Generators (EG) to optimize HEP theory code for execution on HPC systems; (4) Complex Workflows (CW) to orchestrate workflows whose steps need different hardware platforms. I was appointed technical lead of the PPS sub-project and am also point-of-contact for the CMS experiment. With my current postdoc Martin Kwok, I am working on [portability solutions and their applications to HEP software](https://www.anl.gov/hep-cce/portable-parallelization-strategies).

In the U.S. CMS Software and Computing Operations Program, I was responsible for the Software and Support area from October 2016 to February 2019. Under my guidance, the CMS software framework CMSSW was maintained and evolved, as well as critical R&D was started in the areas of vectorized tracking software, machine learning and novel analysis facilities.

Since 2005 and before the start of the LHC data taking in 2010, I was deeply involved in getting the CMS software ready for data taking. I was the lead developer of an innovative tracking algorithm that was used during the commissioning of the CMS detector called RoadSearch. I conducted the first software tutorials in CMS, teaching the CMS community the basics of analysis software and how to perform analysis on the GRID, using a user-friendly GRID analysis tool called CRAB, of which I was one of the lead developers.

During my graduate student time at DESY from 2001 to 2005, I was one of the proponents and lead developers of a new object-oriented and ROOT-based event display. The upgrade of the ZEUS detector made it necessary to integrate the new and changed detector components in the event visualization solution of ZEUS. A client-server structure allowed physicists to display events without direct access to the event store. Online events could also be displayed worldwide with very small latency during data taking.
